The imaginatively-named Quantizer 2 algorithm offers pitch quantization to musical scales, with real-time user control over the notes in the scale to quantize to, and with two CV outputs that can be offset by a musical interval (e.g. a third, a fifth, an octave etc.).

X is the pitch CV input. Parameter 3 allows you to attenuate the signal before it is quantized.

Y is either a second pitch CV input, simply added to X, or a trigger input. When it is a pitch input, it is added to X after X has been attenuated – the attenuation parameter does not affect Y.

Parameter 4 controls the function of Y. When the parameter is in the range -32 to 0, Y is a CV input, attenuated by the parameter (so -32 means no attenuation, -16 means 50%, and 0 means complete attenuation). When the parameter is 1-32 Y is a trigger input, and the parameter defines an offset (in sample frames) between the timing of the X & Y inputs. It is often a good idea to delay the trigger slightly relative to the pitch, to ensure that the pitch has changed and settled before the trigger samples a new note.

A & B are the quantized pitch CV outputs. The Z knob/CV controls an interval between the two CVs, applied to output B. The interval is specified in scale degrees, so for example '3' is a third, and '8' is an octave. 'U' is displayed for unison. Note that this is not simply a constant voltage offset between the outputs – the voltage difference changes according to the position in the scale. For example, if the interval is a third, in C major, and output A is C (0V), then output B will be E (0.333V, a difference of 0.333V); if output A is D (0.167V), output B will be F (0.417V, a difference of 0.25V).

Parameter 5 sets a slew rate for both outputs. At a value of 0 there is no slew; larger values apply increasingly more slew.

Parameter 1 chooses the scale. The available options are:

0 Major

1 Natural Minor

2 Harmonic Minor

Parameter 2 sets the key to quantize into. The displayed key names assume that 0V pitch CV corresponds to the note C. The parameter value does not represent semitones, but degrees around the circle of fifths. Equivalently, the parameter indicates the number of sharps or flats.

Parameter 0 defines the quantizer pattern – the selection of notes from the scale that are available for the CV to adopt. The user interface to editing the pattern is unique to this algorithm. When parameter 0 is the current parameter, turning the S knob scrolls through the degrees of the scale e.g. from 1 to 7 for a major scale. (The actual notes that these scale degrees refer to depend on the selected key and scale.) Next to the number of the scale degree is either a '+', which indicates the degree is included in the quantizer pattern, or '.', which indicates that it is not. Pressing the S knob toggles between these two states.

When the display is not showing a parameter value or name, it shows the note name of the pitch CV on output A (assuming, as mentioned above, that 0V corresponds to a C).

MIDI Input: MIDI note messages received on MIDI channel 1 or 2 set the quantizer pattern. The notes of the C major scale (i.e. the white keys) turn on & off the corresponding degrees of the pattern. Note that C major is always used for the MIDI input, regardless of which key the quantizer is actually working in. The octave of the MIDI notes makes no difference. How the notes control the pattern depends on the MIDI channel:

- MIDI channel 1: A note on message toggles the state of the degree in the pattern on or off.

– MIDI channel 2: The pattern is set from the notes currently being held down.
